#summary Describes the main ideas behind this project

== Introduction ==
The main idea behind the ProjectPilot is to provide a central point for *tracking/monitoring/accessing information* about a software development project (or multiple projects). This would be done by providing a framework and infrastructure for *collecting (and displaying) project information* from various sources (examples: *build servers, revision control systems (RCS)*). ProjectPilot would then provide a *Web application (portal)* which would provide access to this collected information.

== Alternatives ==
I discovered only one (commercial) product which goes in the direction of the ProjectPilot: [http://www.atlassian.com/software/fisheye/ FishEye].

== An Example ==
Let's say you develop projects in .NET and you use Subversion as a RCS. You also maintain a build server using CruiseControl.NET. What would this portal offer you (once it has been developed):
 * the start page of the Portal would offer a search box for searching source code globally for all registered projects
 * it would also provide links to project pages for each registered project
 * the project page would contain a source code search box, project overview information and a menu of available modules. Examples of modules would be: 
  * revision control statistics
  * build statistics
  * source code browser
  * UML diagrams (class diagrams, package dependencies etc.)
  * source code metrics (like LoC)
  * source code documentation
  * many more...

== Implementation ==
The idea is to reuse as much of other available libraries and tools as possible (taking account licensing). Source code documentation, for example, could be generated by using doxygen or Sandcastle tools.
There are also some other interesting tools and libraries which should be investigated:
 * [http://www.opensolaris.org/os/project/opengrok/ OpenGrok] - source code search and cross reference engine.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/cs2project/ CS2Project] - capable of indexing source code files (at the moment only C# code can be parsed) and searching among them with various parameters, like class, property and method names, as well as full-text queries
 * [http://www.umlgraph.org/ UMLGraph] - allows the declarative specification and drawing of UML class and sequence diagrams
 * [http://zvtm.sourceforge.net/zgrviewer.html ZGRViewer, a GraphViz/DOT Viewer] - this could be used for showing various graphs on the portal/. It includes a Java applet.