#summary Describes in short the stuff new project members should know about this project.

= Details =

== Important Links ==
 * Main project page on Google Code: http://code.google.com/p/projectpilot/
 * Subversion repository URL: https://projectpilot.googlecode.com/svn/trunk

== How To Become A Member ==
This project is currently in its initial stages. Until a first stable release is achieved, the project will be of internal nature (just a selected group of developers from HERMES SoftLab). You need to be a project member in order to modify the code. This is how you become one:
 # Create a gmail account (if you haven't got one yet)
 # Contact Igor Brejc with your account. He'll add you to the members list.
 # Sign in into your Google Web account.
 # Click on the "Profile" tab (top-right)
 # Click on the "Settings" tab. You'll see the "GoogleCode.com Password". This is the password you'll need in order to access the SVN repository.

== What Approaches/Technologies/Tools Are Used ==
This list is orientation-only. It should give new members an idea of what they can learn by contributing to this project:

=== Approaches ===
 * Continuous integration (see http://martinfowler.com/articles/continuousIntegration.html)
 * Test-driven development (TDD) (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development)
 * Collective code ownership (see http://www.extremeprogramming.org/rules/collective.html)
 * Paper prototyping (see http://www.nngroup.com/reports/prototyping/video_stills.html)

=== Technologies ===
 * ASP.NET MVC (see [http://weblogs.asp.net/scottgu/archive/2007/11/13/asp-net-mvc-framework-part-1.aspx ScottGu's tutorial])
 * Inversion of control (IoC) containers (see http://martinfowler.com/articles/injection.html)
 * Fluent interfaces (see http://martinfowler.com/bliki/FluentInterface.html)
 
=== Tools And Libraries ===
 * CruiseControl.NET
 * Subversion, Tortoise.SVN, AnkhSVN
 * Castle Windsor IoC (see [http://www.castleproject.org/container/gettingstarted/index.html Getting Started] Castle tutorial)
 * MbUnit / Gallio (for writing tests)
 * Rhino.Mocks (mocking framework)
 * Selenium (for testing Web applications)
 * NVelocity (template engine)
 * ZedGraph (charting library)
 * many others...

== Requirements ==
Check out the DevelopmentEnvironmentRequirements.